Good morning everyone and thank you for coming today.
We are here to discuss the situation of the
displaced widows and female heads of households and how
we can advocate for their rights to return to
their properties when they return to their villages.
First, I think it is important that we
include women in the decision making process.
This is a women's rights issue and it
is crucial that their voices are heard.
I agree, but we have to keep in mind
the mentality of some of the traditional leaders.
The idea of giving decision power or
voice to women is new to them.
How can we create a safe
space for women to speak freely?
Many of the widows may be hesitant to speak
up because of fear of retaliation or stigma.
Maybe to strengthen their voices, we could pair
them with each other or if appropriate, with
a male relative who supports their rights.
This will give them the support and
confidence they need to speak up.
Good point.
We also need to bring attention to the national
laws that mandate equal rights for women and remind
the traditional leaders they must respect the constitution.
Now, that is true.
The law says that women have equal rights to property.
But we all know that here in
the villages, local custom is what matters.
We cannot force the traditional
leaders to change their minds.
Perhaps a more effective way would be to use
the custom and religious norms in our favor.
How so?
Well, for example, traditional custom says that it is
the responsibility of the women to look after the
feminist children with the help of her community.
But most of the displaced widows have children.
We can argue that in order to look
after their children, the women must have access
to their house and to their land.
That makes sense.
I think that's a good strategy.
We should also remember that local practices may
not always align with these norms, and we
need to work to change that.
I agree.
We need to be strategic in our approach
and consider all the factors at play.
Our ultimate goal is to advocate for the rights of
the widows and ensure they can return to their properties.
I think we have a solid plan of action.
Let's set a date for the next
meeting where we can finalize the details.
Sounds good.
Agreed. Great. Let's make it happen.